We are enraptured by the digital medium yet unable to gauge the consequences of our frenzy fully
Digital communication is abolishing distance and distances
The shitstorm swells in spaces where power and authority have weakened...shitstorms flourish where hierarchies have flattened out
The general distraction and dissipation characterizing society today prevent the epic energy of rage from arising
Everyone now thinks him- or herself free, even while working to death
All who participate in the capitalist system belong to it
The contemporary achievement subject is perpetrator and victim in one
No one rules the empire. It is the capitalist system itself, which encompasses everyone. Today, exploitation is possible without any domination at all
Those subject to the neoliberal economy do not constitute a "we" that is capable of collective action
The mounting categorization and atomization of society is making the space for collective action shrink
Solidarity is vanishing. Privatization now reaches into the depths of the soul itself.
The digital medium is in the course of abolishing all priestly classes
The imperative of transparency produces a strong compulsion to conform
Digital media are making our real counterparts fade more and more. Accordingly, digital communication is becoming more and more bodiless and faceless
A face on display does not belong to a counterpart with countenance -- one who casts a spell on, and captivates, the beholder. And so, today, the chains of love have given way to the hell of freedom
The digital medium is brining about an iconic reversal that is making images seem more alive, more beautiful, and better than reality itself
The religious experience is a threshold experience, an experience of the completely other...A society of positivity removes every threshold and every threshold experience by leveling everything to the same
Freedom will prove to have been merely an interlude. Freedom is felt when passing from one way of living to another -- until this too turns out to be a form of coercion
Neoliberalism represents a highly efficient, indeed an intelligent, system for exploiting freedom. Everything that belongs to practices and expressive forms of liberty - emotion, play and communication - comes to be exploited
Psychic maladies such as depression and burnout express a profound crisis of freedom. They represent pathological signs that freedom is now switching over into manifold forms of compulsion
Originally, being free meant being among friends
Industrial capitalism has now mutated into neoliberalism and financial capitalism, which are implementing a post-industrial, immaterial mode of production - instead of turning into communism
People who fail in the neoliberal achievement-society see themselves as responsible for their lot and feel shame instead of questioning the society or the system
The negativity of otherness or foreignness is de-interiorized and transformed into the positivity of communicable and consumable difference: "diversity"
Power that relies on violence does not represent power of the highest order...The greater power is, the more quietly it works. It just happens: it has no need to draw attention to itself
Today, power is assuming increasingly permissive forms. In its permissivity - indeed, in its friendliness - power is shedding its negativity and presenting itself as freedom
the capitalism of Like should come with a warning label: Protect me from what I want
Power that is smart and friendly does not operate frontally - i.e., against the will of those who are subject to it. Instead it guides their will to its own benefit. It says 'yes' more often than 'no'; it operates seductively, not repressively
Motivation, projects, competition, optimization and initiative represent features of the psychopolitical technology of domination that constitutes the neoliberal regime
Neoliberalism is not primarily concerned with the biological, the somatic the corporeal. It has discovered the psyche as a productive force
Perpetual self-optimization - as the exemplary neoliberal technology of the self - represents nothing so much as a highly efficient mode of domination and exploitation
Under neoliberalism, the technology of power takes on a subtle form. It does not lay hold of individuals directly. Instead it ensures that individuals act on themselves so that power relations are interiorized and then interpreted as freedom
It is not concern for the good life that drives self-optimization. Rather, self-optimization follows from systemic constraints - from the logic of quantifying success on the market
Endlessly working at self-improvement resembles the self-examination and self-monitoring of Protestantism, which represents a technology of subjectivation and domination in its own right
Without negativity, life degrades into "something dead." Indeed, negativity is what keeps life alive. Pain is constitutive for experience. Life that consists wholly of positive emotions and the sensation of "flow" is not human at all.
Eros concerns the Other in the strong sense, namely, what cannot be encompassed by the regime of the ego
Erotic experience presumes the asymmetry and exteriority of the Other
In today's increasingly narcissistic society, we have come to look for love and desire within the "inferno of the same"
We live in an increasingly narcissistic society. Libido is primarily invested in one's own subjectivity
Depression is a narcissistc malady. It derives from overwrought, pathologically distored self-reference. The narcissistic-depressive subject has exhausted itself and worn itself down
Eros sets into motion freely willed self-renunciation, freely willed self-evacuation. A singular process of weakening lays hold of the subject of love - which, however, is accompanied by a feeling of strength
Auto-exploitation proves much more efficient than allo-exploitation because it is accompanied by a feeling of liberty. This makes possible exploitation without domination.
The neoliberal regime conceals its compulsive structure behind the seeming freedom of the single individual, who no longer understands him- or herself as a subjugated subject, but as a project in the process of realizing itself
Capitalism is not a religion. Every religion operates with both debt (guilt) and relief (pardon). But capitalism only works with debt and default. It offers no possibility for atonement, which would free the debtor from liability
Eros is a relationship to the Other situated beyond achievement, performance, and ability
The negativity of otherness -- that is, the atopia of the Other, which eludes all ability -- is constitutive of erotic experience
Absolutizing ability is precisely what annihilates the Other. A successful relationship with the Other finds expression as a kind of failure. Only by way of being able not to be able does the Other appear.
Today, love is being positivized into sexuality, and, by the same token, subjected to a commandment to perform. Sex means achievement and performance. And sexiness represents capital to be increased.
The body -- with its display value -- has become a commodity. At the same time, the Other is being sexualized into an object for procuring arousal
There is no such thing as a sexual personality
A sex object also has no "countenance," which is what constitutes alterity: the otherness of the Other commands distance
Today, love is being positivized into a formula for enjoyment. Above all, love is supposed to generate pleasant feelings. It no longer represents plot, narration, or drama -- only inconsequental emotion and arousal
This world of positivity admits only things that can be consumed. Pain itself is supposed to be enjoyable. Here, negativity -- which manifests itself as pain in Hegal -- no longer exists at all
The future is shedding the negativity of the Other and positivzing itself into an optimized present that excludes all disaster
Erotic desire is tied to a particular absence of the Other -- not the absence of nothingness, but rather "absence in a horizon of the future." The totalization of the present as the time of the Same liminates the absence that otherwise makes the Other unattainable
Levinas's ethics of eros can be reformulated as resistance to the economic reification of the Other. Otherness is not consumable difference. Capitalism is eliminating otherness wholeale in order to subordinate everything to consumption
Preferring servitude to the threat of death, the slave clings to bare life. Physical superiority does not determine the outcome of the struggle. Instead what proves decisive is the "ability to die" or a capacity for death
Work and bare life are closely related. Both constitute reactions to the negativity of death.
The defense of bare life is intesifying into the absolutization and fetishization of health. The modern-day slave prefers it to sovereignty and freedom
For Hegal [the Absolute] represents love...Absolute means unrestricted. It is precisely the restricted spirit that wants immediacy with itself and turns away from the Other
According to Hegal, the "life of Spirit" is not bare life...Spirit owes its liveliness specifically to the capacity for death. "Spirit" [looks] the negative in the face and [tarries] with it"
As an absolute end, love passes through death. Although one dies in the Other, this death is followed by a return to oneself
Eros is the medium for intensifying life up to the point of death
The negativity of death is essential to erotic experience. Above all, death concerns the ego, the I. Erotic life-impulses overwhelm and dissolve its narcisstic and imaginary idenity. Because of their negativity, they express themselves as death-impulses
The society of positivity, from which negativity has disappeared, is a society of bare life, which is dominated exclusively by the concern "to make sure of survival" in the face of discontinuity. This is a slave's life
The [Flying] Dutchman is undead, unable either to live or to die. Damned to journey eternally in the enferno of the same, he yearns for an apocalypse that would set him free from torment
Today, sexuality is not threatened by that "pure reason" which puritancially avoids sex as something "dirty," but by pornography
The pornographication of the world is unfolding as the profation of the world. Porn profanes the erotic
Today, love -- inasmuch as it supposed to amount only to warmth, intimacy, and pleasant arousal -- points to the destruction of sacred eros